the Secretary of State arrived in Jordan
not on his normal jet but on a US
military plane an indication that
difficult diplomatic situation he faces
is also potentially a threat to his own
security he'll have heard plain speaking
from Jordan's King Abdullah before
heading for a meeting with Palestinian
president Mahmud Abbas camera Crews and
reporters filmed a handshape between the
two before being quickly escorted
out as he continued his tour of the
region the US's top Diplomat will have
been aware that criticism of Israel's
tactics was now coming from many others
in addition to the Palestinian president
the UN the international Committee of
the Red Cross and the World Health
Organization were all denouncing the
order for people in Gaza City and the
north to move
southwards in Qatar secretary blinkin
met with the Amir tamim bin hammad Alani
a leader who maintains links with Hamas
as well as the west and secretary
blinkin then publicly laid out the two
areas where they're working together we
discussed in detail our efforts to
prevent any actor state or nonstate from
creating a new front uh in this
conflict we're also working intensively
together to secure the release of
hostages including American citizens
being held by Hamas and Gaza I'm
grateful for the urgency that cutter is
bringing to this effort but there's a
key difference in the approach of the
two countries katar prime minister made
it clear his Nation wants an immediate
Ceasar in Gaza we cannot uh deprive uh
the people in Gaza from electricity
water and uh medicine and like all the
means uh of Life uh we believe that the
situation is very dangerous this is the
longest tour of the Middle East that the
secretary of state has made in total
he's visiting seven countries in each
one he's stressing Israel's right to
self-defense but there are many in the
Arab world that believe this
indiscriminate and devastating
bombardment is not defense but in fact
revenge and Collective punishment James
Bay's aljazera of the Amir Dewan in Doha